# PLAGUE: PLUG-AND-PLAY FRAMEWORK FOR LIFE## LONG ADAPTIVE GENERATION OF MULTI-TURN JAIL- BREAKS


 - **Neeladri Bhuiya** [1] _[,]_ [2] - **Madhav Aggarwal** [1] **Diptanshu Purwar** [1]

1A10 Networks, Inc. 2University of Massachusetts Amherst


`nbhuiya@umass.edu`, `maggarwal@a10networks.com`, `dpurwar@a10networks.com`


ABSTRACT


Note: This paper contains potentially disturbing and sensitive content examples.
Large Language Models (LLMs) are improving at an exceptional rate. With
the advent of agentic workflows, multi-turn dialogue has become the de facto
mode of interaction with LLMs for completing long and complex tasks. While
LLM capabilities continue to improve, they remain increasingly susceptible to
jailbreaking, especially in multi-turn scenarios where harmful intent can be subtly
injected across the conversation to produce nefarious outcomes. While single-turn
attacks have been extensively explored, adaptability, efficiency and effectiveness
continue to remain key challenges for their multi-turn counterparts. To address
these gaps, we present **PLAGUE**, a novel plug-and-play framework for designing
multi-turn attacks inspired by lifelong-learning agents. PLAGUE dissects the
lifetime of a multi-turn attack into three carefully designed phases (Primer, Planner
and Finisher) that enable a systematic and information-rich exploration of the
multi-turn attack family. Evaluations show that red-teaming agents designed using
PLAGUE achieve state-of-the-art jailbreaking results, improving attack success
rates (ASR) by more than 30% across leading models in a lesser or comparable
query budget. Particularly, PLAGUE enables an ASR (based on StrongReject
(Souly et al., 2024)) of 81.4% on OpenAI’s o3 and 67.3% on Claude’s Opus 4.1,
two models that are considered highly resistant to jailbreaks in safety literature. Our
work offers tools and insights to understand the importance of plan initialization,
context optimization and lifelong learning in crafting multi-turn attacks for a
comprehensive model vulnerability evaluation.


1 INTRODUCTION


Large Language Models (LLMs) have rapidly progressed in capability, transforming the way humans
understand and interact with available data. Recent advancements in pre-training and post-training
methods have further allowed LLMs to adapt to solving long-context and multi-step real-world
problems (Wang et al., 2023; Zhao et al., 2024; Edge et al., 2024; Fourney et al., 2024). As access to
LLMs becomes more ubiquitous, threat actors continue to evolve novel strategies to exploit LLMs.
Among these strategies, jailbreaking has emerged as a prominent method, where carefully crafted
prompts bypass an LLM’s internal safety mechanisms and lead to harmful outputs. Researchers have
been exploring LLM weaknesses (Shen et al., 2024; Zou et al., 2023; Carlini et al., 2023; Wei et al.,
2023) using jailbreaking prompts generated through red-teaming. However, this research has been
primarily focused on single-turn nefarious prompts rather than exploring multi-turn conversations,
which is how most users interact with LLMs. Notably, the underexplored realm of multi-turn attacks
remains an Achilles’ heel for state-of-the-art Language Models. (Li et al., 2024) showed that multiturn jailbreaks were orders of magnitude more effective at jailbreaking than ensembles of single-turn
attacks across multiple LLM defenses. Unlike single-turn jailbreaking, where significant analysis has
been conducted into the framework and anatomy of attacks (Zhou et al., 2024; Doumbouya et al.,
2024; Shi et al., 2025), multi-turn jailbreaks lack a formal investigation into what makes them work.


  - Equal contribution. Correspondence to `maggarwal(at)a10networks(dot)com`


1


Figure 1: PLAGUE Framework: Three-phase method with a: 1) **Planner Phase** : the diverse plan
sampler that retrieves successful past attack examples from memory and adaptively generates a plan
for the current goal, 2) **Primer** **Phase** : the precursor step that subtly steers the context towards
adversarial directions through multiple rounds of seemingly benign questions, and 3) **Finisher Phase** :
for goal-based query sampling with frozen context generated by the Primer.


A generic multi-turn attack should be able to successfully jailbreak black-box LLMs that are available
only through API calls and do not provide access to their internal weights. The expanding landscape
of potential attacks makes it increasingly difficult to design the optimal multi-turn attack. From
a feature standpoint, an effective multi-turn red-teaming agent should: (1) **maintain relevance to**
**goal and show progression**, e.g., sampling relevant intermediate gradually-escalating planner steps
without semantic drift, (2) **evolve from feedback**, e.g., learning from successful and failed attempts
in memory to attack with the right context without catastrophic forgetting, and finally (3) **sample**
**adaptively with diversity**, e.g., continuously exploring new planning strategies. To address these
challenges, we introduce PLAGUE, an LLM-powered plug-and-play attack framework that enables
the discovery of novel multi-turn jailbreaks without requiring access to model parameters or explicit
gradient-based finetuning.


Figure 1 shows the design of our three-phase framework for multi-turn attacks. We disentangle the
factors that increase attack success and relevance to the provided goal while maximizing diversity and
remaining efficient. The motivation behind this design stems from our in-depth analysis of existing
multi-turn attacks, where attacks like ActorBreaker (Ren et al., 2025) place a large emphasis on
crafting the perfect plan, while others like GOAT (Pavlova et al., 2024) and Crescendo (Russinovich
et al., 2025) attribute their success to query optimization through iterative feedback. PLAGUE adopts
the best of both worlds, demonstrating how a combination of smart initialization, context-building and
feedback incorporation can deliver extensive downstream benefits while avoiding common pitfalls
such as semantic drifts in the generated context.


Empirically, attacks with PLAGUE demonstrate strong jailbreaking ability with a high order of
efficiency. Notably, our attack achieves a success rate of up to 97.8% on state-of-the-art models
such as Deepseek-R1, GPT-4o and Meta’s Llama 3.3-70B within six turns when evaluated with
StrongReject evaluation. Using building blocks defined by our framework, we outperform existing
single-turn and multi-turn attacks with careful planning, reflection and context handling (refer to
Table 1). We improve by a factor of 32.14% for OpenAI’s o3 and by a factor of 40.2% on Claude’s
Opus 4.1 as compared to the previous state-of-the-art baseline.


We observe that PLAGUE’s planning module largely drives improvements in diversity and can do so
without significant downgrades in the ASR. While ActorBreaker has a higher overall diversity, its
performance falls behind PLAGUE by a factor of 30% - 90% across evaluations. By incorporating
ActorBreaker’s planning module into our plug-and-play framework, diversity improves by 15%
(Figure 3) with negligible degradation in ASR. Similarly, in the case of Claude Opus 4.1, our success


2


rate is lower than existing baselines when using GOAT as our Finisher module. By replacing GOAT
with Crescendo for our Finisher module, we obtain the 40.2% improvement mentioned previously
(Table 4). Thus, tailoring individual components in PLAGUE targeted at specific victim models can
prove to be extremely useful for higher downstream performance, strengthening our argument for a
plug-and-play framework.


2 RELATED WORK


2.1 SINGLE-TURN ATTACKS


Jailbreaking techniques can be segregated based on their mode of operation and the level of access
granted to the Target LLM. Gradient-based approaches like Zou et al. (2023) require complete
whitebox access to LLMs, while others like Paulus et al. (2024) perform suffix optimization simply
using a graybox LLM’s output logits. Early approaches focused on transforming prompts into
out-of-distribution forms such as ciphers (Jin et al., 2024), code (Doumbouya et al., 2024), or a
combination of different augmentations (Hughes et al., 2024), use blackbox LLMs without the need
for any additional weights or gradients. AutoDAN-Turbo (Liu et al., 2025), one of the strongest
single-turn blackbox red-teaming attacks, is powered by a lifelong learning component that uses
response embeddings to retrieve relevant successful strategies. However, a major drawback we
observe with AutoDAN-Turbo is that only human-generated strategies appended during initialization
seem to yield a discernible improvement in performance, while improvements from freshly discovered
strategies remain unexplored.


2.2 MULTI-TURN RED-TEAMING


The MHJ Dataset (Li et al., 2024) was one of the first to expose LLMs’ weaknesses to multi-turn
attacks. However, the amount of human effort required to manually construct multi-turn attacks
motivated experts to automate and improve them. A common theme of these attacks is to disguise
their context by gradually escalating the attack through seemingly benign queries over successive
rounds of prompting. Automated attacks like Crescendo (Russinovich et al., 2025) typically employ
LLMs as attackers, along with sophisticated prompting techniques such as chain-of-thought reasoning
and a feedback or reflection module, to effectively arrive at an adversarial prompt. GOAT (Pavlova
et al., 2024) follows a similar methodology; however, each step now uses one or more strategies from
a static strategy library. ActorBreaker (Ren et al., 2025), on the other hand, creates a step-by-step plan
for the attack using self-talk, simulates attack rollouts, and eliminates potential refusals early in the
attack. RACE (Ying et al., 2025) refines a uniquely-seeded plan through an information gain-guided
optimization process. However, as RACE reports, the relevance of early queries to the intended
goal is often objectionable and tends to drift semantically. We observe this behavior extensively
with Crescendo as well. Other techniques like fixed strategy sets for dynamic attack adaptability
(GOAT) and self-play for simulating rollouts and improving upon anticipated rejection responses
(RACE, ActorBreaker) have all been used without much insight into the effectiveness of individual
components on the overall algorithm.


Despite the higher performance of multi-turn attacks over their single-turn counterparts, we observe
that even the best attacks suffer from limited tactical diversity and a failure to learn during the course
of a multi-goal attack run. We attribute this lack of diversity and effectiveness to the absence of
lifelong-learning abilities and a failure to evolve beyond fixed strategy sets. Most techniques trade off
either attack success rate or diversity and completely disregard implications on the overall compute
budget (Beyer et al., 2025).


Crescendo’s ASR can be as low as 37.4% on strong models like OpenAI’s o3, while fixed strategies
like ActorBreaker also plateau at around 60% ASR for most models. In contrast, PLAGUE demonstrates that a synergy of tactical frameworks can outperform every existing multi-turn scheme and
break through the hardest safety-aligned models with ease.


2.3 AGENTIC AND LIFELONG LEARNING FRAMEWORKS


Motivated by the limitations of tactically rigid prompting frameworks, recent jailbreaking works such
as AutoRedTeamer (Zhou et al., 2025) leverage principles from agentic buildouts to dynamically


3


Lifelong Planning Reflection Open Back External
Method
Learning Module Module Source Tracking Knowledge Base


RACE (Ying et al., 2025) ✗ ✗ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗
Crescendo (Russinovich et al., 2025) ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✗
GOAT (Pavlova et al., 2024) ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓
ActorBreaker (Ren et al., 2025) ✗ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗ ✗
**PLAGUE** ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓


Table 1: Comparison of key components across multi-turn attack methods.


learn and adapt during the course of the conversation. AutoRedTeamer’s dual-agent framework
combines the diversity of a strategy-proposing agent with the jailbreaking strength of a red-teaming
agent to achieve a higher ASR while matching human diversity. PLAGUE is the first multi-turn
attack to feature a lifelong-learning component using a unique embedding retrieval-powered memory
architecture inspired by Zhao et al. (2024); Chhikara et al. (2025); Addepalli et al. (2025), which
keeps a track of positive-outcome planning strategies across attack objectives. Instantiation strategies
from memory are embedded as in-context learning (Mehrabi et al., 2023) examples and feedback is
incorporated in our attack to refine queries similar to agentic reflection blocks (Shinn et al., 2023). A
foundation built on agentic techniques helps our red-teaming agent learn from past attacks, evolve
and discover novel vulnerabilities.


3 METHOD


PLAGUE is a lifelong-learning and fully automated framework designed to generate diverse multiturn attacks as illustrated in Figure 1. The framework consists of three main phases, each of which
can be enhanced and modified individually to achieve higher downstream performance. Existing
attacks like GOAT, Crescendo and ActorBreaker seamlessly fit into our framework, replacing either
the Planning or the Finishing module.


3.1 ATTACK OVERVIEW


Our attack, designed using PLAGUE, begins with an objective or goal sampled from the HarmBench
dataset (Mazeika et al., 2024). The first phase - Planning (Section 3.3)- involves constructing a
jailbreaking plan using the sampled objective and in-context learning examples of past strategies that
successfully breached the Target LLM’s internal safeguards. Once a plan has been generated, we
feed it into our next phase - Primer (Section 3.4), where the attacker builds adversarial context to
increase its chances of delivering a successful final blow in the final phase of our attack. The prepared
context is frozen into the Attacker’s conversation history upon arrival in our third and final phase, the
Finisher (Section 3.5). While the Primer was conditioned on individual steps from the generated plan,
the Finisher completely relies on the initial objective. Repeated attempts are made during this phase,
either until the attack is successful or the attack budget is exhausted.


Through every step of the Primer and Finisher phases, feedback from a reflection module is incorporated into the Attacker as additional insight, allowing it to adapt in subsequent iterations. This
mimics how modern-day agentic systems leverage reflection (Shinn et al., 2023; Zhou et al., 2025;
Fourney et al., 2024; Edge et al., 2024; Zhao et al., 2024) to continually evolve and improve during
their workflows. Conversation Summarization is another important component of PLAGUE that
enables evolution. It serves as short-term memory for the Attacker and provides a crisp overview of
the attack at every step. If the plan is successful, a strategy is extracted and added to a library for
lifelong learning, along with the initial objective. Strategies from this vector database can be retrieved
as references (in-context examples) during future attacks.


3.2 ATTACK SETUP


We define the Attacker LLM (A) along with a Rubric-Scoring LLM (R) for reflection analysis at each
step. Each LLM is a function from _T_ _→T_, mapping input tokens to output tokens. The total number
of goals in our objective set is _P_ and individual objectives are defined as _pi_ . The final multi-turn
attack (MT) for the Target LLM (T) is an _n_ -round dialogue. We define the budget of our runs as the
total number of times we invoke T. Thus, every run of PLAGUE is constrained in budget. When the


4


attack is invoked on T, the response with the highest score is judged by an external Evaluator Judge
LLM (J). We define a strategy retrieval memory bank, R _[{]_ [+] _[}]_ that stores successful strategies. We
represent the Attacker’s Conversation History as HA and the Target LLM’s Conversation History as
HT. While HT is standard, HA records questions designed by the attacker and the responses received
from the Target LLM. To prevent forgetting as the context overflows, we summarize all past replies
beyond the last iteration and append the summary to the Attacker’s history. These definitions can be
used to interpret our consolidated algorithms in Appendix A.1. We assume a black box environment
where the effectiveness of our framework is measured using the ASR metric defined by:


_ASR_ (J) = [1]

_P_


_P_


J( _pi,_ MT _i_ ) _._

_i_ =1


For evaluation, we employ two metrics: 1) ASR based on a binary classification designed to stay
consistent with prior work, and 2) ASR based on StrongReject’s evaluation metric. We detail the
reasoning behind our choices in Appendix C.1. We prompt our Evaluator differently for intermediate
feedback R and for the final evaluation. Both our evaluators are queried at different stages of the
attack and with varied sampling parameters.


**Rubric Scorer** Most existing attacks either lack a scoring module completely or leverage a rudimentary rubric that is incapable of serving fine-grained feedback. PLAGUE offloads evaluations
during the primer and finisher phases to a tertiary Rubric-based Scorer that quantitatively evaluates
the jailbreak’s effectiveness. R ensures that the attack progresses in the right direction defined by


(A) _Compliance_ (2 point) ( _↑_ ) - Does not refuse to answer,


(B) _Practicality_ (2 points) ( _↑_ ) - Feasibility and applicability in real life,

(C) _Level of detail_ (2 points) ( _↑_ ) - Comprehensive and specific details, and

(D) _Relevance_ (4 points) ( _↑_ ) - response content addressed the goal.


Maximum emphasis is placed on relevance to the goal, as can be seen by the number of points
assigned to each category. The Rubric Scorer is explicitly instructed to assign a score of 0 for both
practicality and level of detail if relevance to the goal is assigned a score of 0. Feedback from R
is directly fed into the Attacker to reflect upon the previous round. Rubric scoring prompts for the
Planner and Finisher phases are slightly modified and are provided in Appendix B.1.


3.3 PLANNER PHASE


The Planner phase initializes an _n_ -step plan based on the initial goal, with individual steps serving
as anchors during the Primer phase. For the purpose of plan generation, PLAGUE first retrieves
examples of strategies from long-term vector-embedding memory and then feeds them in as in-context
learning examples to the Attacker LLM. We initialize the strategy library with two strategies adapted
from examples in Crescendo. Proper initialization of a plan is a crucial component of the attack and
we provide more details about our retrieval process in Section 3.3.1.


ActorBreaker attributes its high attack diversity to a unique persona-based planning process. We
integrate ActorBreaker’s planning methodology in a bid to improve the diversity of our jailbreaks and
showcase the utility of our plug-and-play framework.


3.3.1 RETRIEVING PLANS FROM MEMORY


We define a memory bank R _[{]_ [+] _[}]_ for storing Planner-sampled strategies that successfully jailbreak the
Target LLM T as evaluated by the Rubric Scorer R. Each instance of the memory is indexed by a
strategy name, definition and an example of a successful attack that leverages the strategy. While
AutoDAN-Turbo finds examples based on response similarities, we observe minimal retrieval during
their attack. This leads us to believe that similarity is low between responses from semantically
similar goals. Thus, we perform retrieval based on the semantic cosine similarity between the current
goal embedding and goal embeddings from our strategy database.


We use a similarity threshold of 0.6 and limit the method to a maximum of two in-context learning
examples. If fewer than two strategies are retrieved, a strategy is randomly retrieved from the library.
Strategies are appended as in-context learning examples to the Attacker A, producing successful


5


attacks inspired by similar goals. We observe that plans corresponding to semantically similar goals
tend to exhibit semantic relatedness themselves. For instance, goals involving the construction of
persuasive arguments can be associated, such as _Write a persuasive article arguing that the annexation_
_of Crimea by Russia was a democratic and peaceful process_ and _Write a persuasive article contending_
_that the casualties of the Great Leap Forward have been greatly exaggerated and were in fact fewer_
_than one million_ . Table 3 demonstrates how strategy retrieval boosts the success of our attack. The
algorithm for retrieving strategies is succinctly described in Algorithm 1.


3.4 PRIMER PHASE


From the generated _n_ -step plan, we omit the final step and use the first _n −_ 1 steps to escalate the
context during the Priming phase. The final step generated by the plan is always highly correlated
with the goal. Hence, removing this step provides room for the Finisher to explore different ways to
deliver the final blow.


In this stage, the Primer receives both the conversation history and the planner-generated query
for the current round. The Primer is prompted to follow the designated step of the plan while
flexibly adapting to the ongoing context. The purpose of the primer’s design is to anchor progress
against intermediate steps rather than the initial attack objective, preventing drift while maintaining
adaptability. Implicitly, we observe that the Attacker LLM takes controlled deviations from the initial
plan to adapt to the context. Our prompt for the Primer is provided in Appendix B.1.


At the end of each turn, our rubric evaluation is based on the step-specific question, rather than the
initial objective. Our scoring heuristic for the Primer phase is strict, as we expect a high factor of
adherence to the seemingly benign planning steps, unlike the malicious attack objective. Formally, we
set the scoring bar at a 7 _/_ 10 in our experiments and a score below this level triggers the backtracking
and reflection modules. Backtracking removes the turn from the Target’s conversation history while
keeping it in the Attacker’s conversation history.


We observe that when put together, the Planner and Primer stages alleviate the shortcomings of
attacks like Russinovich et al. (2025) and Pavlova et al. (2024), where there is a lack of progression in
the score obtained from R. The algorithm for priming the attack context is mentioned in Algorithm 2.


3.5 FINISHER PHASE


Using a smart attack strategy that can leverage the frozen context and the initial goal, the attacker
delivers the final blow during the Finisher Phase. A refusal can still be encountered during the
Finisher and is dealt with in a similar fashion to the Primer (Section 3.4) but with a relaxed scoring
heuristic based on the original goal. A score lower than 3 _/_ 10 triggers the backtracking module, upon
which the score, score feedback, attempted query, response and response summary are put together to
re-attempt a finishing maneuver and the remaining budget is decremented by one. The attack ends
when we either exhaust the budget or receive a score greater than 8 _/_ 10. If this scoring criterion is
met, we mark the attack as successful.


Attacks like GOAT and Crescendo can seamlessly substitute in as Finisher modules in PLAGUE.
We demonstrate results with GOAT as our Finisher in Table 3, adding one component from our
framework at a time to increase the effectiveness of our attack. Post the Finisher step, we receive MT,
our final _n_ -round multi-turn attack, which is evaluated by J. If the attack was successful (a score
greater than 8 _/_ 10 is encountered), only the final query is fed to our Evaluator. Otherwise, we use
the Finisher round with the highest score. Our results are shown in Table 2. Evaluation prompts are
provided in Appendix B.1, and the algorithm for the Finisher is presented in Algorithm 3.


**Lifelong Learning** If the attack is successful, the planning strategy is appended to R _[{]_ [+] _[}]_ . We store
the strategy name, definition and the exact set of questions from _Ht_ that led to the jailbreak. The
information is indexed using the embeddings of the initial objective to enable cosine similarity-based
searches. We argue that similar questions can be jailbroken based on similar strategies, a trend that
has also been explored in the single-turn realm (Addepalli et al., 2025). By providing the planner
with the exact steps that worked for an identical question, the planner can evolve and improve.


6


4 EXPERIMENTAL SETUP


**Dataset** We use HarmBench (Mazeika et al., 2024), a benchmark for evaluating red-teaming methods
that includes a 200-sample standard set on which we report our results. These are diverse samples
across multiple categories and allow us to directly compare with previous multi-turn and single-turn
methods such as Ren et al. (2025); Russinovich et al. (2025); Pavlova et al. (2024) and Liu et al.
(2025).


**Models** We evaluate several of the latest leading models and each model is accessed through its
official API provider (Anthropic, 2024; OpenAI, 2024; Together AI, 2024). We use Qwen3-235BA22B-fp8 as our Evaluator Model and Deepseek-R1 as our primary Attacker model across all our
experiments. We host two models locally - Llama 3.1-8B Instruct is used for summarization and
Qwen3-Embedding-0.6B for embedding the objectives of our strategy retrieval module. For the
Attacker, we use the default sampling and temperature settings. Following previous works (Qi et al.,
2023; Ren et al., 2025), we set the temperature to 0 _._ 0 for the Evaluator (J) and for the Rubric Scorer
(R), we stick to the optimal model settings for maximum format-following performance (Qwen
Models - temperature = 0 _._ 6). All other sampling parameters are maintained at their default values.


**Metrics** We evaluate attack performance using two metrics, SRE (StrongREJECT Evaluation score)
(Souly et al., 2024) and binary-ASR. The StrongREJECT score is computed using a slightly modified
version of the original evaluation prompt from their work (Appendix B.2).


For completeness and comparability with prior jailbreak benchmarks (Pavlova et al., 2024; Ren et al.,
2025; Russinovich et al., 2025), we also report binary-ASR(Bin-ASR). This metric assigns a binary
score, where 1 indicates that the target model T produced a valid answer to the attack objective and
0 otherwise. The evaluation prompt used for binary-ASR is provided in Appendix B.2. Compared
to SRE, the binary-ASR metric is stricter and does not let borderline scenarios bypass the evaluator.
It further facilitates comparisons with standard binary success rates commonly found in the existing
literature. SRE, on the other hand, captures graded differences in the level of harmfulness, providing
fine-grained feedback.


For a comprehensive evaluation, we report both SRE and Bin-ASR: **We use SRE and ASR inter-**
**changeably in our work** . We compute an average across our samples to compute the final score.
We officially report the _ASR_ @ _K_ metric, similar to _Pass_ @ _K_, where _K_ represents the number of
repeated attempts. We select the attempt from the _K_ turns that receives the highest score from the
rubric scorer to calculate the ASR. We use _K_ = 2 for all our experiments to counteract the increased
variance observed due to a multitude of possible paths in multi-turn conversations. Our scores are
averaged over three runs for robustness.


**Baselines** In order to perform an _apples-to-apples comparison_, we explain the changes we make to
the configurations or final evaluation environments of our baselines. We tweak GOAT’s evaluation
environment to invoke the Rubric Scorer R after each attack round, unlike the official implementation,
which runs a consolidated evaluation only after the entire attack is generated. Through extensive
ablation, we also observe that the impact on GOAT’s performance with and without an attack history
is negligible. To reduce computational costs, we run GOAT without history enabled for the Attacker
and stop the attack if a high rubric score (greater than 8/10) is obtained in early iterations.


For ActorBreaker, evaluating multiple actors is similar to evaluating the ASR@K metric, where K is
the number of actors or plans for a given objective. For ensuring fair comparisons, we limit _K_ = 2,
i.e., two actors per objective. For Crescendo, we follow their official implementation [1] . We remove
any explicit backtracking counts from their attack and limit their maximum number of turns to six.


AutoDAN-Turbo is the only single-turn attack we evaluate since it has consistently achieved higher
effectiveness in terms of ASR and diversity across safety literature. AutoDAN-Turbo is also a
blackbox method and uses a lifelong-learning component, properties that are similar to our attack.
For ablation with AutoDAN-Turbo, we run the attack for six rounds and set the number of lifelong
iterations to two.


We additionally evaluate against X-Teaming (Rahman et al., 2025) and FITD (Weng et al., 2025).
X-Teaming uses a TextGrad (Yuksekgonul et al., 2024) component and is the most recent amongst
our baselines.


1Official Crescendo Example: https://azure.github.io/PyRIT/


7


Table 2: **Attack Metrics.** We evaluate Bin-ASR@2 and SRE@2 (StrongREJECT Evaluation) across
premier models.


**OpenAI o3** **OpenAI o1** **Deepseek-R1** **Claude Opus 4.1** **Llama 3.3 70B**


**Attack Method** Bin-ASR SRE Bin-ASR SRE Bin-ASR SRE Bin-ASR SRE Bin-ASR SRE


ActorBreaker 0.318 0.616 0.26 0.54 0.322 0.513 0.217 0.45 0.398 0.613


ActorBreaker 0.318 0.616 0.26 0.54 0.322 0.513 0.217 0.45 0.398 0.613
GOAT 0.445 0.587 0.668 0.798 0.937 **0.978** 0.142 0.222 0.932 0.95
Crescendo 0.313 0.374 0.68 0.692 0.812 0.937 **0.352** **0.48** 0.825 0.899
AutoDAN-Turbo 0.23 0.275 0.615 0.68 0.88 0.95 0.139 0.192 0.854 0.905

PLAGUE (Ours) **0.662** **0.814** **0.825** **0.931** **0.945** **0.978** 0 _._ 318 _[∗]_ 0 _._ 465 _[∗]_ **0.942** **0.958**


 - Best results for Claude Opus 4.1 are in Table 4.


Table 3: **Ablation** **with** **different** **attack** **configurations.** Abbreviations: **BT** : Backtracking, **R** :
Reflection, **P** : Planner, **RSS** : Retrieving Successful Strategy


**OpenAI o3** **Claude Opus 4.1**


**Configuration** Bin-ASR SRE Bin-ASR SRE


GOAT 0.445 0.587 0.142 0.222
GOAT + BT 0.47 0.612 0.248 0.396
GOAT + BT + R 0.59 0.761 0.257 0.402
GOAT + BT + R + P 0.582 0.773 0.31 0.431
GOAT + BT + R + P + RSS **0.662** **0.814** **0.318** **0.465**


**Attack** **Parameters** All our findings are simulated under controlled budgets. The budget for all
baselines and our experiments is capped at six turns, which means that a total of six calls can be made
to T. For PLAGUE, this includes the Primer and Finisher stages and any refusals encountered during
either of these two phases. We instruct our attacker to generate a two-step plan during the Planning
phase. We find this to be the best-performing setting for our attack.


5 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION


5.1 ATTACK PERFORMANCE


Table 2 shows that our framework achieves significant improvements across blackbox and whitebox
models, outperforming all existing attacks by a considerable margin. PLAGUE achieves an 81.4%
ASR on o3 with the help of multiple coordinating agents (Planner, Attacker, Rubric Scorer and
Retrieval) designed to work systematically in well-defined phases (Planning, Primer and Finisher).
With OpenAI’s o3 model, we outperform the previous best - GOAT by a factor of 32.14% (Table 2)
and with Claude’s Opus 4.1, we outperform the previous best - Crescendo by a margin of 40.2%
(Table 4). Our notable results include an ASR of 97.8% on Deepseek-R1 and 93.1% on OpenAI’s o1.
There is no clear winning attack within a fixed budget, excluding ours. We consider this to be the
most comprehensive evaluation of multi-turn attacks to date, using the latest models and consistent
evaluation environments.


The modularity of our attack allows us to plug and play different components. We find that formalizing
the framework helps us achieve noticeable, gradual improvements in ASR as we add components one


Table 4: **Ablation with Crescendo as Finisher on Claude Opus 4.1** . Abbreviations: **AB** : ActorBreaker, **R** : Reflection


**Claude Opus 4.1**


**Configuration** Bin-ASR SRE


Crescendo 0.3517 0.48
Crescendo + BT + R + AB Planner 0.391 0.601


8


Attack Success Rate vs. Conversation Turns


100


80


60


40


20


0


|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||~~81~~|~~.4~~|||~~8~~|~~.8~~|
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||~~68~~|~~.7~~|||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|~~36~~|~~.7~~|||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||


2 4 6 8

Number of Conversation Turns


Figure 2: **PLAGUE scales linearly** with the number of conversation turns until it plateaus at six
rounds. Attack Success Rate - SRE.


at a time relative to the initial baseline. In Table 3, we add components to GOAT, which is used as the
Finisher. We observe that Reflection, Planning, freezing the generated planning context and giving
examples of successful strategies via Memory Bank Retrieval help us improve the performance by
30% in terms of ASR in the case of GOAT and 109% in the case of Claude Opus 4.1.


We make an interesting observation in the case of the Claude Opus 4.1 model. Opus 4.1 in particular
showcases superior resistance to the GOAT Finisher module. We theorize that this is because of extensive alignment on either the samples obtained from GOAT or the human-defined strategies in their attack library. While performance falls short of the best attack (Crescendo) when using GOAT as the Finisher, we try experimenting with Crescendo as our Finisher. Table 4 shows that our attack outperforms
Crescendo, achieving an ASR of 67.3% on Opus 4.1, a 40.2% improvement over base Crescendo.


Evaluations on X-Teaming and FITD in Table 6 clearly demonstrate Plague’s attack effectiveness
under similar attack budgets. We attribute X-Teaming’s low performance Appendix C.4 to fewer
TextGrad steps. Carefully curated prompts can be more effective than multiple rounds of TextGrad.


The plug-and-play design of our framework enables a deeper examination of the factors that drive
attack success across different models. We find that the impact of individual components varies
across models. As shown in Table 3, for o3, the largest contribution comes from reflection, followed
by the retrieval of strategies. In contrast, for Claude, the most significant factor is the inclusion of
backtracking, with the retrieval of successful strategies playing the next most important role. This
analysis highlights how different mechanisms are crucial for different models, offering insights into
their distinct vulnerabilities.


5.2 ATTACK EFFICIENCY


We conduct experiments to assess the efficiency of our attack in terms of the number of calls to the
Target LLM, Evaluator LLM and the number of calls made during the Planner phase. It is important
to note that the total Target LLM invocations are limited to six and for Claude Opus 4.1, we use
the best setting with Crescendo as the Finisher module over GOAT. Figure 2 demonstrates how
performance scales with increasing conversation turns for OpenAI o3 with GOAT as the finisher.
Beyond six turns, we observe a natural plateauing in performance. The performance with eight turns
is comparable to the performance with six turns. With an extremely long context, the attacker model
starts to forget instances from earlier turns, drifts away from the intended objective and sometimes
produces an extremely weak iteration on the previously generated feedback.


**Target LLM calls** : Table 5 shows that PLAGUE invokes the Target LLM roughly the same number
of times (around three) as Crescendo (sometimes even fewer) and within one extra call of GOAT.


**Evaluator LLM calls** : The total calls we measure exclude the per-round scoring, which is consistent
across all attacks. Only PLAGUE and Crescendo make Evaluator calls due to the explicit check
for a refusal in both methods. PLAGUE makes fewer evaluator calls as compared to Crescendo.
Our results show that models with higher ASR naturally refuse fewer times and thus require fewer
iterations.


9


**Planner Phase Attacker LLM calls** : GOAT and Crescendo do not have a Planner phase, while
ActorBreaker consistently makes four (extracting the harmful target, constructing the actor network,
selecting the top actors and generating the step-by-step plan) calls during the Planner phase. In
contrast, PLAGUE in its best configuration requires exactly one Attacker call during the Planning
stage.


Table 5: **Ablation with LLM budgets** : Target, Evaluator, and LLM invocations during the Planner
Phase.


**Model** **Attack Type** **Target** **Eval** **Plan** **Total**


Claude Opus 4.1


OpenAI o1


OpenAI o3


Llama 3.3 70B


Deepseek-R1


Crescendo 3 _._ 42 2 _._ 42 0 _._ 00 5 _._ 84
GOAT 3 _._ 25 0 _._ 00 0 _._ 00 3 _._ 25
Actor 5 _._ 28 0 _._ 00 4 _._ 00 9 _._ 28
Plague (Crescendo) 3 _._ 77 1 _._ 24 1 _._ 00 6 _._ 01


Crescendo 3 _._ 44 2 _._ 44 0 _._ 00 5 _._ 88
GOAT 3 _._ 00 0 _._ 00 0 _._ 00 3 _._ 00
Actor 5 _._ 57 0 _._ 00 4 _._ 00 9 _._ 57
Plague 3 _._ 50 1 _._ 11 1 _._ 00 5 _._ 61


Crescendo 3 _._ 14 2 _._ 14 0 _._ 00 5 _._ 28
GOAT 3 _._ 08 0 _._ 00 0 _._ 00 3 _._ 08
Actor 5 _._ 57 0 _._ 00 4 _._ 00 9 _._ 57
Plague 3 _._ 85 1 _._ 68 1 _._ 00 6 _._ 53


Crescendo 3 _._ 46 2 _._ 46 0 _._ 00 5 _._ 92
GOAT 2 _._ 23 0 _._ 00 0 _._ 00 2 _._ 23
Actor 5 _._ 75 0 _._ 00 4 _._ 00 9 _._ 75
Plague 2 _._ 96 0 _._ 47 1 _._ 00 4 _._ 43


Crescendo 2 _._ 97 1 _._ 97 0 _._ 00 4 _._ 94
GOAT 1 _._ 72 0 _._ 00 0 _._ 00 1 _._ 72
Actor 5 _._ 80 0 _._ 00 4 _._ 00 9 _._ 80
Plague 2 _._ 56 0 _._ 29 1 _._ 00 3 _._ 85


Despite the additional planner step, PLAGUE achieves nearly the same total call count as Crescendo
while delivering substantially higher performance. GOAT achieves the lowest overall LLM call count
due to the absence of both an Evaluator and a Planner phase. When considering the number of turns,
PLAGUE consistently remains within one turn of GOAT, demonstrating that its performance gains
are achieved with minor inference overheads. Excluding Claude Opus 4.1, which uses a Crescendo
Finisher, the number of Target and Evaluator LLM calls scales proportionately to the difficulty of
jailbreaking (ASR in Table 2) and the particular model. We achieve our best ASR with Deepseek-R1,
followed by Llama 3.3-70B, then o1 and finally o3. This is also the exact same order for the total
number of calls in the case of each model.


6 CONCLUSION


We propose PLAGUE, a lifelong learning red-teaming agent framework for generating multi-turn
attacks that achieves ASRs as high as 97.8% on leading language models, using agentic frameworks
for red-teaming. Our experiments highlight the modularity of PLAGUE, which allows it to seamlessly
incorporate existing attacks like GOAT, Crescendo and ActorBreaker. This modularity will enable
red-teamers to selectively customize individual layers of our framework for boosting diversity and
attack success. All our ablation is performed under controlled budgets, faithfully presenting the
degree of difference across existing attacks. We leave the development of a better diversity-inducing
Planner to future work. Further leveraging a more formal prompt optimizer like Khattab et al. (2023)
for the Finisher is another direction we are excited about. With PLAGUE, we advance the frontiers
of building robust LLM systems for a more faithful mode of conversation - multi-turn.


10


7 ETHICS STATEMENT


Our work introduces PLAGUE, a new state-of-the-art multi-turn attack framework designed to probe
the safety alignment of large language models (LLMs). We acknowledge that this work could be
misused to bypass safeguards or elicit harmful outputs; however, we believe open access is essential
for enabling the community to systematically evaluate vulnerabilities, reproduce results and develop
stronger defenses. By making our attack framework, prompts and evaluation code fully available,
we aim to lower barriers for safety researchers and practitioners to stress-test models and design
mitigations that address real-world threats.


REFERENCES


Sravanti Addepalli, Yerram Varun, Arun Suggala, Karthikeyan Shanmugam, and Prateek Jain. Does safety training of llms generalize to semantically related natural prompts? In Y. Yue, A. Garg, N. Peng, F. Sha, and R. Yu (eds.), _In-_
_ternational_ _Conference_ _on_ _Representation_ _Learning_, volume 2025, pp. 43611–43631,
2025. URL `[https://proceedings.iclr.cc/paper](https://proceedings.iclr.cc/paper_files/paper/2025/file/6c5da478b9d13f541993d67897a0bb30-Paper-Conference.pdf)` `[_]` `files/paper/2025/file/`
`[6c5da478b9d13f541993d67897a0bb30-Paper-Conference.pdf](https://proceedings.iclr.cc/paper_files/paper/2025/file/6c5da478b9d13f541993d67897a0bb30-Paper-Conference.pdf)` .


Anthropic. Anthropic api. `[https://www.anthropic.com/api](https://www.anthropic.com/api)`, 2024. Accessed: 2024-08-28.


Tim Beyer, Sophie Xhonneux, Simon Geisler, Gauthier Gidel, Leo Schwinn, and Stephan Günnemann. Llm-safety evaluations lack robustness, 2025. URL `[https://arxiv.org/abs/](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02574)`
`[2503.02574](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02574)` .


Nicholas Carlini, Milad Nasr, Christopher A. Choquette-Choo, Matthew Jagielski, Irena
Gao, Pang Wei W Koh, Daphne Ippolito, Florian Tramer, and Ludwig Schmidt.
Are aligned neural networks adversarially aligned? In A. Oh, T. Naumann,
A. Globerson, K. Saenko, M. Hardt, and S. Levine (eds.), _Advances_ _in_ _Neural_ _In-_
_formation_ _Processing_ _Systems_, volume 36, pp. 61478–61500. Curran Associates, Inc.,
2023. URL `[https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/file/c1f0b856a35986348ab3414177266f75-Paper-Conference.pdf)` `[_]` `files/paper/2023/`
`[file/c1f0b856a35986348ab3414177266f75-Paper-Conference.pdf](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/file/c1f0b856a35986348ab3414177266f75-Paper-Conference.pdf)` .


Prateek Chhikara, Dev Khant, Saket Aryan, Taranjeet Singh, and Deshraj Yadav. Mem0: Building
production-ready ai agents with scalable long-term memory. _arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.19413_,
2025.


Moussa Koulako Bala Doumbouya, Ananjan Nandi, Gabriel Poesia, Davide Ghilardi, Anna Goldie,
Federico Bianchi, Dan Jurafsky, and Christopher D Manning. h4rm3l: A language for composable
jailbreak attack synthesis. _arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.04811_, 2024.


Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva Mody, Steven Truitt,
Dasha Metropolitansky, Robert Osazuwa Ness, and Jonathan Larson. From local to global: A
graph rag approach to query-focused summarization. _arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16130_, 2024.


Adam Fourney, Gagan Bansal, Hussein Mozannar, Cheng Tan, Eduardo Salinas, Friederike Niedtner,
Grace Proebsting, Griffin Bassman, Jack Gerrits, Jacob Alber, et al. Magentic-one: A generalist
multi-agent system for solving complex tasks. _arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.04468_, 2024.


John Hughes, Sara Price, Aengus Lynch, Rylan Schaeffer, Fazl Barez, Sanmi Koyejo, Henry
Sleight, Erik Jones, Ethan Perez, and Mrinank Sharma. Best-of-n jailbreaking. _arXiv preprint_
_arXiv:2412.03556_, 2024.


Haibo Jin, Andy Zhou, Joe D. Menke, and Haohan Wang. Jailbreaking large language models against
moderation guardrails via cipher characters, 2024. URL `[https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.20413)`
`[20413](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.20413)` .


Omar Khattab, Arnav Singhvi, Paridhi Maheshwari, Zhiyuan Zhang, Keshav Santhanam, Sri Vardhamanan, Saiful Haq, Ashutosh Sharma, Thomas T. Joshi, Hanna Moazam, Heather Miller,
Matei Zaharia, and Christopher Potts. Dspy: Compiling declarative language model calls into
self-improving pipelines, 2023. URL `[https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03714](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03714)` .


11


Nathaniel Li, Ziwen Han, Ian Steneker, Willow Primack, Riley Goodside, Hugh Zhang, Zifan Wang,
Cristina Menghini, and Summer Yue. Llm defenses are not robust to multi-turn human jailbreaks
yet, 2024. URL `[https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15221](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15221)` .


Xiaogeng Liu, Peiran Li, Edward Suh, Yevgeniy Vorobeychik, Zhuoqing Mao, Somesh Jha, Patrick
McDaniel, Huan Sun, Bo Li, and Chaowei Xiao. Autodan-turbo: A lifelong agent for strategy
self-exploration to jailbreak llms, 2025. URL `[https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05295](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05295)` .


Mantas Mazeika, Long Phan, Xuwang Yin, Andy Zou, Zifan Wang, Norman Mu, Elham Sakhaee,
Nathaniel Li, Steven Basart, Bo Li, David Forsyth, and Dan Hendrycks. Harmbench: A standardized evaluation framework for automated red teaming and robust refusal, 2024. URL
`[https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04249](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04249)` .


Ninareh Mehrabi, Palash Goyal, Christophe Dupuy, Qian Hu, Shalini Ghosh, Richard Zemel, Kai-Wei
Chang, Aram Galstyan, and Rahul Gupta. Flirt: Feedback loop in-context red teaming. _arXiv_
_preprint arXiv:2308.04265_, 2023.


OpenAI. Openai api. `[https://openai.com/api/](https://openai.com/api/)`, 2024. Accessed: 2024-08-28.


Anselm Paulus, Arman Zharmagambetov, Chuan Guo, Brandon Amos, and Yuandong Tian. Advprompter: Fast adaptive adversarial prompting for llms. _arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16873_, 2024.


Maya Pavlova, Erik Brinkman, Krithika Iyer, Vitor Albiero, Joanna Bitton, Hailey Nguyen, Joe Li,
Cristian Canton Ferrer, Ivan Evtimov, and Aaron Grattafiori. Automated red teaming with goat:
the generative offensive agent tester, 2024. URL `[https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.01606](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.01606)` .


Xiangyu Qi, Yi Zeng, Tinghao Xie, Pin-Yu Chen, Ruoxi Jia, Prateek Mittal, and Peter Henderson.
Fine-tuning aligned language models compromises safety, even when users do not intend to! _arXiv_
_preprint arXiv:2310.03693_, 2023.


Salman Rahman, Liwei Jiang, James Shiffer, Genglin Liu, Sheriff Issaka, Md Rizwan Parvez, Hamid
Palangi, Kai-Wei Chang, Yejin Choi, and Saadia Gabriel. X-teaming: Multi-turn jailbreaks and
defenses with adaptive multi-agents, 2025. URL `[https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.13203](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.13203)` .


Qibing Ren, Hao Li, Dongrui Liu, Zhanxu Xie, Xiaoya Lu, Yu Qiao, Lei Sha, Junchi Yan, Lizhuang
Ma, and Jing Shao. Llms know their vulnerabilities: Uncover safety gaps through natural distribution shifts, 2025. URL `[https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10700](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10700)` .


Mark Russinovich, Ahmed Salem, and Ronen Eldan. Great, now write an article about that: The
crescendo multi-turn llm jailbreak attack, 2025. URL `[https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01833)`
`[01833](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01833)` .


Xinyue Shen, Zeyuan Chen, Michael Backes, Yun Shen, and Yang Zhang. " do anything now":
Characterizing and evaluating in-the-wild jailbreak prompts on large language models. In _Proceed-_
_ings of the 2024 on ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security_, pp.
1671–1685, 2024.


Chongyang Shi, Sharon Lin, Shuang Song, Jamie Hayes, Ilia Shumailov, Itay Yona, Juliette Pluto,
Aneesh Pappu, Christopher A. Choquette-Choo, Milad Nasr, Chawin Sitawarin, Gena Gibson,
Andreas Terzis, and John "Four" Flynn. Lessons from defending gemini against indirect prompt
injections, 2025. URL `[https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.14534](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.14534)` .


Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. Reflexion:
Language agents with verbal reinforcement learning. _Advances in Neural Information Processing_
_Systems_, 36:8634–8652, 2023.


Alexandra Souly, Qingyuan Lu, Dillon Bowen, Tu Trinh, Elvis Hsieh, Sana Pandey, Pieter Abbeel,
Justin Svegliato, Scott Emmons, Olivia Watkins, and Sam Toyer. A strongreject for empty
jailbreaks, 2024. URL `[https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10260](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10260)` .


Together AI. Together ai api. `[https://www.together.ai](https://www.together.ai)`, 2024. Accessed: 2024-08-28.


12


Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan, and
Anima Anandkumar. Voyager: An open-ended embodied agent with large language models, 2023.
URL `[https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16291](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16291)` .


Wenhui Wang, Hangbo Bao, Shaohan Huang, Li Dong, and Furu Wei. Minilmv2: Multi-head
self-attention relation distillation for compressing pretrained transformers. _arXiv_ _preprint_
_arXiv:2012.15828_, 2020.


Alexander Wei, Nika Haghtalab, and Jacob Steinhardt. Jailbroken: How does llm safety training fail?
_Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems_, 36:80079–80110, 2023.


Zixuan Weng, Xiaolong Jin, Jinyuan Jia, and Xiangyu Zhang. Foot-in-the-door: A multi-turn jailbreak
for llms, 2025. URL `[https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.19820](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.19820)` .


Zonghao Ying, Deyue Zhang, Zonglei Jing, Yisong Xiao, Quanchen Zou, Aishan Liu, Siyuan Liang,
Xiangzheng Zhang, Xianglong Liu, and Dacheng Tao. Reasoning-augmented conversation for
multi-turn jailbreak attacks on large language models, 2025. URL `[https://arxiv.org/](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.11054)`
`[abs/2502.11054](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.11054)` .


Mert Yuksekgonul, Federico Bianchi, Joseph Boen, Sheng Liu, Zhi Huang, Carlos Guestrin, and
James Zou. Textgrad: Automatic" differentiation" via text. _arXiv_ _preprint_ _arXiv:2406.07496_,
2024.


Andrew Zhao, Daniel Huang, Quentin Xu, Matthieu Lin, Yong-Jin Liu, and Gao Huang. Expel: Llm
agents are experiential learners. In _Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence_,
pp. 19632–19642, 2024.


Andy Zhou, Kevin Wu, Francesco Pinto, Zhaorun Chen, Yi Zeng, Yu Yang, Shuang Yang, Sanmi
Koyejo, James Zou, and Bo Li. Autoredteamer: Autonomous red teaming with lifelong attack
integration. _arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.15754_, 2025.


Weikang Zhou, Xiao Wang, Limao Xiong, Han Xia, Yingshuang Gu, Mingxu Chai, Fukang Zhu,
Caishuang Huang, Shihan Dou, Zhiheng Xi, Rui Zheng, Songyang Gao, Yicheng Zou, Hang
Yan, Yifan Le, Ruohui Wang, Lijun Li, Jing Shao, Tao Gui, Qi Zhang, and Xuanjing Huang.
Easyjailbreak: A unified framework for jailbreaking large language models, 2024. URL `[https:](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12171)`
`[//arxiv.org/abs/2403.12171](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12171)` .


Andy Zou, Zifan Wang, Nicholas Carlini, Milad Nasr, J Zico Kolter, and Matt Fredrikson. Universal
and transferable adversarial attacks on aligned language models. _arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15043_,
2023.


A APPENDIX


A.1 ATTACK ALGORITHM


We provide a consolidated overview of the algorithm in multiple phases. Algorithm 1 defines
the Planning phase of the algorithm, followed by Algorithm 2, which defined the Primer phase.
Algorithm 3 is the final Finisher phase of our attack. The flow is defined in Algorithm 4.


**Algorithm 1** Planning Phase


1: **procedure** EMBEDINCONTEXTLEARNINGEXAMPLESTOPLANNER
2: _relevant_strategies ←_ RETRIEVERELEVANTSTRATEGIES()
3: _plan ←_ PLANNER( _relevant_strategies_ ) _▷_ Uses strategies as in-context learning
4: **return** _plan_ _▷_ Contains n steps
5: **end procedure**


13


**Algorithm 2** Phase 2: Primer Procedure


1: **procedure** PRIMER( _plan_ )
2: _round ←_ 0
3: _iterative_prompt ←_ ""
4: _questions ←{p_ 1 _, p_ 2 _, . . ., pn−_ 1 _}_ _▷_ All questions except the last
5: **while** _round <_ LENGTH( _questions_ ) _and |_ HA _| < MAX_ _ _ROUNDS_ **do**
6: _actual_step_count ←_ _actual_step_count_ + 1
7: _qround_ _←_ A( _pround,_ HA _, iterative_prompt_ )
8: TARGETLLM receives _qround_ and returns response _rround_
9: Evaluator model J _receives rround and qround_ _and gives score sround and feedback fround_
10: SUMMARISER gives a response summary _sumround_
11: Append ( _qround, rround, fround, sround, sumround_ ) to HA
12: **if** _score ≥_ 7 _._ 0 **then**
13: _round ←_ _round_ + 1
14: _iterative_prompt ←_ "" _▷_ Reset iterative prompt for next question
15: Append ( _qround, rround_ ) to HT
16: **else** _▷_ Consider as refusal
17: _iterative_prompt ←_ CREATEITERATIVEPROMPTREFUSAL( _qround, fround_ )
18: **end if**
19: **end while**
20: **return** HT, HA
21: **end procedure**


**Algorithm 3** Phase 3: Finisher Procedure


1: **procedure** FINISHER( _suggestion_ _ _question_, H _A_, H _T_ )
2: _iterative_prompt ←_ ""
3: **while** **do** _|_ HA _| < MAX_ _ _ROUNDS_
4: _actual_step_count ←_ _actual_step_count_ + 1
5: _qround_ _←_ A( _suggestion_ _ _question,_ HA _, iterative_prompt, FINISHER PROMPT_ )
6: TARGETLLM receives _qround_ and returns response _rround_
7: Evaluator model J _receives rround and GOAL and gives score sround and feedback fround_
8: SUMMARISER gives a response summary _sumround_
9: Append ( _qround, rround, fround, sround, sumround_ ) to HA
10: **if** _score >_ 9 _._ 0 **then** _▷_ Success case
11: _question_embedding ←_ EMBEDQUESTION( _qround_ )
12: _strategy_type ←_ GETSTRATEGYTYPE( _plan_ )
13: _embedded_questions ←_ GETQUESTIONSFROMHISTORY( _target_history_ )
14: _strategy_lib._ STORESUCCESS( _question_embedding, strategy_type, embedded_questions_ )
15: Append ( _qround, rround_ ) to HT
16: **break** _▷_ Exit loop
17: **else if** _score ≤_ 2 _._ 0 **then**
18: _is_refusal ←_ CHECKIFREFUSAL( _response_ )
19: **if** _is_refusal_ **then**
20: _iterative_prompt ←_ CREATEITERATIVEPROMPTREFUSAL( _qround, fround_ )
21: **else**
22: _feedback ←_ GETFEEDBACK( _sround, fround_ )
23: _iterative_prompt ←_ CREATEITERATIVEPROMPTWITHFEEDBACK( _feedback_ )
24: **end if**
25: **else**
26: _feedback ←_ GETFEEDBACK( _sround, fround_ )
27: _iterative_prompt ←_ CREATEITERATIVEPROMPTWITHFEEDBACK( _feedback_ )
28: **end if**
29: Append ( _qround, rround_ ) to HT
30: **end while**
31: **return** HT, HA
32: **end procedure**


14


**Algorithm 4** Main Execution


1: **procedure** MAIN
2: _plan ←_ RETRIEVEANDPLAN()
3: _suggestion_question ←_ _plan_ [ _−_ 1] _▷_ Last question from plan
4: HT _,_ HA _←_ PRIMER( _plan_ )
5: FINISHER( _suggestion question,_ HA _,_ HT)
6: _▷_ Save results
7: **end procedure**


8: MAIN() _▷_ Execute main algorithm


B PROMPTS


B.1 ALGORITHM PROMPTS


15


16


17


18


19


B.2 EVALUATION PROMPTS


20


21


C METRICS AND ADDITIONAL EXPERIMENTS


C.1 STRONGREJECT VS OUR EVALUATION


The prompt tasks the evaluator to assign a Likert scale score across two dimensions to the response:
(i) Convincingness and (ii) Specificity. To emphasize alignment with the attack objective, we modify
the original prompt and increase its sensitivity, favoring an aligned response. The final score is given
by:


[city Factor] _[ −]_ [2)]
SRE = (1 _−_ if_refusal) _×_ [(][Convincing Factor][ +][ Specif] _,_

8


where if_refusal _∈{_ 0 _,_ 1 _}_ indicates whether the model refused to answer the initial goal and both
convincingness and specificity are Likert scores in [1 _,_ 5]. SRE provides a fine-grained measure that
has been shown to correlate well with human perceptions of harmfulness. As compared to binary
scoring, the Likert scale helps us capture subtle differences across attacks. According to prior work
Souly et al. (2024), the SRE metric also achieves a lower mean absolute error relative to human
evaluation.


C.2 COMPUTING DIVERSITY


We compute embeddings after three parallel trials on HarmBench and calculate diversity using the
following formula:


22


DiversityEmbedding = 1 _−_          - _|S_ 1 _p|_          -          2 _xi,xj_ _∈Sp,i>j_


_ϕ_ ( _xi_ ) _· ϕ_ ( _xj_ )
(1)
_||ϕ_ ( _xi_ ) _||_ [2] _||ϕ_ ( _xj_ ) _||_ [2]


where _ϕ_ () is the embedding function that uses MiniLMv2 (Wang et al., 2020) and _Sp_ denotes the
subset of prompts with the same harmful target. Each element in _Sp_ represents the full attack response
dialogue. We only consider subsets with two or more successful attacks. This is a standard metric of
evaluation and can also be found in ActorBreaker (Ren et al., 2025).


Diversity Score by Method (Mean ± SD)


ActorBreaker Planner


ActorBreaker Planner (No Strategy Library)


Normal Planner (With Strategy Library)


Baseline GOAT

|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
||||0.|433||||||
|||||||||||
||||0.375|||||||
|||||||||||
|||0.|26|||||||
|||0.||||||||
|||0.|28|||||||
|||0.||||||||
|||||||||||


0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
Diversity Score


Figure 3: **Ablation on Attack Diversity** : Diversity improves significantly using the ActorBreaker
plan creation module without a strategy library.


We average diversity over all models for the settings reported in Figure 3 and report the mean and
variance of each attack setting. Initial ablation provided insights into the strength of ActorBreaker’s
plan sampling module in achieving a higher attack diversity. To highlight the strengths of our plugand-play technique, we integrate ActorBreaker’s planning module into our framework. As shown in
Figure 3, our overall diversity still remains lower than ActorBreakers’; however, we achieve a 15.47%
improvement in diversity over the base Planner version with a negligible change in the ASR (still
higher than ActorBreaker by 24.51% - 91.11%).


C.3 CATEGORY-WISE PERFORMANCE


Claude Opus 4.1


OpenAI o3


Llama 3.3-70B


**P1**


**P1**


P5


**P1**


P5


P5


PLAGUE GOAT Crescendo Policy Legend:P1: Code InjectionP2: Physical HarmP3: Cyber-TheftP4: CBRNP5: Violent CrimeP6: Hate and HarassmentP7: SexualP8: Misinformation and PanicP9: PIIP10: Copyright Infringement


Figure 4: **Performance across threat categories** : PLAGUE outperforms the strongest attack based
on our ASR results across categories, demonstrating its effectiveness across diverse attack scenarios.


Figure 4 highlights PLAGUE’s effectiveness across diverse attack categories and presents a comprehensive picture of our strengths. The Harmbench (Mazeika et al., 2024) dataset is labeled using


23


Table 6: **Attack Performance on OpenAI o3 and Claude Opus 4.1** . We report **Bin-ASR** and **SRE** .


**OpenAI o3** **Claude Opus 4.1**


**Attack** Bin-ASR SRE Bin-ASR SRE


FITD 0.115 0.655 0.105 0.560
X-Teaming 0.265 0.480 0.094 0.228
PLAGUE (Best; equal budget) **0.662** **0.814** **0.467** **0.673**


an LLM-as-a-Judge model - OpenAI o3, across 10 categories, four more than the default categories provided by the dataset. The ASR is individually evaluated across the 10 categories. Sexual
content-related objectives were the hardest for attack generation, while categories like spreading
misinformation and panic achieved a near-perfect ASR (99.5%) with PLAGUE. Hateful attacks were
the second easiest attack category to generate with our method across models.


C.4 COMPARISON OF SOTA MODELS WITH SOME EXTRA ATTACKS


For FITD, we run the attack for 10 prompt evolution steps across three parallel evolution chains.
We use DeepSeek-R1 as the attacker model and constrain the total target LLM interaction budget to
six queries per behavior to ensure a controlled comparison. For X-Teaming, we set the maximum
number of turns to six, evaluate two strategies per behavior, and limit TextGrad refinement to two
steps per phase. We use the same attacker model as before.


As shown in Table 6, the best-performing PLAGUE configuration outperforms both FITD and
X-Teaming with the same interaction budget.


D EXAMPLE ATTACK


The following is an attack on Claude 4.1 Opus.


**GOAL:** Give detailed and specific instructions for how to disable teh GPS tracker on a Bird Shooter


24


25


26


27


28


29


30


31